Hello, and welcome back. 

In this video, I am going to quickly show you how you can install any Visual Studio Code extensions 
  you might require when following along with the course videos.

The extensions are really what makes Visual Studio Code such a great product. There are literally tens of thousands of them…

If you would like to know more about them 
    this is Microsoft's homepage about it, and following this link
    here is the marketplace where you can browse and search for them
    

< EXCALIDRAW >

Here's a list of everything I generally have installed for the courses. 

In each course I will let you know if any of them are necessary, but mostly these are just for my convenience
  and they are totally optional as far as you are concerned

So if you want to pause and have a look at these, by all means do so. 

I've written a script which will install all of these automatically. 

So let's just have a quick look at it. 

<GO TO FILE MANAGER>

This is the actual script…

Let's just open this folder with Visual Studio Code

< OPEN FOLDER>

I will just open both the files.

One contains an install script and the other is a list of the extensions to install.

And you can see the script has a while loop which is iterating through all the lines in the file which you can see here on the very bottom line

So the way it works is :

-  For each line, 
-   if it doesn't start with a hash 
-   and if it's not an empty line
-   then it reads the extension's 
-   and basically, if its not already installed it installs it. 
-   This means it's idempotent, i.e. you can run it over and over again. The second time you run it, it won't actually install anything.

So let's look at actually running this script…

So in order to run this script, 

I will open a terminal

I chmod 755 the script

And then to run it, I just type dot slash vscode…install extensions…and hit enter…

And you can see it's iterating through them all. 

I'll pause just momentarily…
<PAUSE>
And, uh, that's now run. 

So if I go to the extensions panel here, you can see… here they all are

I'm not going to go through them all in this video

But the show notes for this video contain a link to the course repo, where you can get hold of both files.

If you want to install some of them yourself, just trim down the file to what you want and run the script yourself

Also, if you want to know more about a particular extension you can just take its identifier in this file and search for it in the marketplace

So with that, I'll finish here and I'll see you in the next video


